# wg-simple-vpn
## Explanation
This script automates the creation of remote access VPNs, along with other network configurations. It also generates QR codes for client configurations and allows you to check the status of all WireGuard VPNs.

## Important Steps (Before Client Setup)
### Port forwarding
If your server is behind a NAT (e.g., a home router), you must configure Port Forwarding on your router so the external traffic reaches this server's UDP port (e.g., 51820). For example, if the VPN is listening on port 51820, you create a rule to redirect any traffic hitting your router's public IP on port 51820 (external port) to your server's private IP on port 51820 (internal port).

### Client requirements
If you specify a DNS server for a Debian / Ubuntu client, the resolvconf package must be installed on that system for the settings to take effect. If it is not installed, run:
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt install resolvconf
```
## Installation
### Clone the repository:
```bash
sudo git clone https://github.com/UraniumForest/wg-simple-vpn.git
cd wg-simple-vpn
```
### Give execution permission to the installer and run it:
```bash
sudo chmod +x install.sh
sudo ./install.sh
```
## Usage
### Create a remote access VPN
Configure the server and multiple clients through a guided wizard.
```bash
sudo wg-simple-vpn add
```
### Display clients configuration in QR codes
Choose a client to display its configuration as a QR code for easy scanning.
```bash
sudo wg-simple-vpn show
```
### Remote access VPNs status
Check handshakes, data transfer, and the state of active tunnels.
```bash
sudo wg-simple-vpn status
```
## Project Structure
### wg-simple-vpn
The main executable script (can be executed from anywhere).

### install.sh
Installation and dependency management script.

### /etc/wireguard/
Directory where server configuration files are stored on the server.

### /etc/wireguard/clients/
Directory where client configuration files are stored on the server.

## Client Setup
First, you must transfer the configuration file generated by the server to the client device.
Then, depending on the client's system you must do the following: 

### Android / iOS
- Install the WireGuard app from Google Play Store or Apple App Store.

- Open the app and tap the "+" button.

- Select "Scan from QR code".

- Run `sudo wg-simple-vpn show` on your server, select a client and scan the generated QR code with your phone.

- Give the VPN tunnel a name and switch it ON.

### Windows
- Download and install the Official WireGuard App.

- Click "Add Tunnel" and select your .conf file.

- Click "Activate" to connect to the VPN.

### Debian / Ubuntu
```bash
# Install Wireguard
sudo apt install wireguard

# Replace 'client.conf' with your actual file name
sudo cp client.conf /etc/wireguard/

# (Optional) Enable auto-connect to the VPN on boot (using the filename without .conf)
sudo systemctl enable wg-quick@client

# Connect to the VPN right now (using the filename without .conf)
sudo systemctl start wg-quick@client
```
If you want to stop the connection with the VPN, run the following command: 
```bash
sudo systemctl stop wg-quick@client
```
## System Requirements For Server
OS: Debian 11+, Ubuntu 20.04+.
